The author of this passage titled 'What is Matter?' defines matter as 'the stuff' that all objects and substances in the universe are made of. 
All matter has the ability to be detected and measured as it takes up space defined as volume and contains a certain amount of material defined as mass. 
Matter can either observed easily with an individual's senses, or in a more challenging capacity. 
Examples the text gives of types of matter that are easy to identify with sight and touch senses are: rocks, trees, bicycles, and different kinds of animals. 
Types of matter more challenging to observe are: dust mites and air. 
Dust mites are too small for the naked eye but can be found in furniture and rugs, and air although can't be seen the author argues it can be felt with help of the wind, bending the tree branches.
Matter can be classified by two separate properties: physical and chemical. 
Physical properties can be observed without having to change the make-up, or identity of the matter. 
Matter has several different physical properties that are outlined in the article.
Examples of physical properties are: density, ductility, malleability, boiling point, melting point, electrical conductivity, and solubility. 
The author references clay as an object that is malleable as it has the ability to take different forms by pressing or pounding on it. 
Chemical properties however, describe matter based on its ability to change into matter with different properties. 
Examples of chemical properties are flammability and rusting, as the object is no longer made of the same matter. 
The difference between physical and chemical change is that physical change only relates to the size and shape of the object, the matter the object is made up of remains the same.
The author provides an example of a sheet of paper folded into thirds, although the new paper size is now one third of the original and is shaped differently, it is still paper.
Unlike physical change, chemical change occurs when the chemical properties of the matter have changed and a new substance is produced. 
The author keeps the original type of matter: paper, and explains by applying fire to the paper and letting it burn, the ash, gas, and smoke you're left with is not paper any longer.
In conclusion, the author explains that energy is related to matter as it is defined as a property of matter, and all matter has it. 
Although it can't be seen or touched like matter, energy is very essential. 
The law of conservation of energy is a rule associated with forms of energy. 
This law explains that energy comes several forms and cannot be created or destroyed.
Energy can only be transferred from one object or system to another. 
Mechanical energy is the energy an object has because of its motion or position. 
The two kinds of mechanical energy are: kinetic and potential. 
Kinetic energy is the energy an object has because it is moving. 
The author asserts a parallel between speed/mass and kinetic energy, the greater the speed and mass of an object, the greater the kinetic energy. 
Potential energy is energy an object has because of its position or shape.
